<h1> Evaluating Hierarchical Models on Economic Recessions of 10 OECD Countries </h1>
<h2> A collaboration on Bayesian Statistical Computing </h2>
<p>
  Economic cycles for businesses are inevitable, yet identifiable. While riding through the wave of an economic expansion is pleasant, stumbling through an unforeseeable economic contraction may be damaging. The economic contraction is also known as an economic recession. Recession is often associated with a downturn in economic performance. During an economic downturn, people sequentially sell off their assets and so do you, but before you notice, your assets have been sold at a price lower than their intrinsic values. Through the late 1920s, investors repeatedly sold off their shares due to bleak news of the economy. The public panicked and followed what the investors did- selling off shares like crazy. Consequently, shares were oversold at prices far below their true values. A recession commenced. The bearish outlook caused people to sell off shares at even bigger losses, which later accelerated the Great Depression in 1929. What do we learn? Identifying moments before a recession hits may protect us from unanticipated losses. In a statistical sense, many inferences may be drawn between the economic condition and the performance of financial instruments- stocks, bonds, options, futures, and exchange rate swaps to name a few. This paper will take a Bayesian approach to evaluate hierarchical models that fully leverage the top economic indicators as precursors toward recession events for 10 OECD countries. Identifying such economic conditions prior allows for time to strategize our holdings before the actual recession arrives.

</p>
